William Wooten, director of the Texas
Transportation Institute. Today's date is July
the 30th. Dr. Wooten, could we begin by, you're
telling us something about your background.
Well, I was born out in the country, about 15 miles
from the town of Junction, Texas, which is up in the
hill country. I went to school in Austin. Well,
it's northwest a little of Austin. Kimball
County, which is up on the Balcones Escarpment.
It's sheep and goat country, rush country. Its
nearest large town is probably closer to
Kerrville than any other, and San Angelo was
probably the major regional shopping center for
that, if there was such a thing at that time, as a
regional shopping center. It was the place that
people went to. Do major trading. That's there
where some of those coal streams run through it.
Right, right. I went to school and started in a
little school that's no longer in existence at
Teacup, Texas. One word, Teacup. Right, it's
named after a little mountain that is... looks
like an inverted teacup, comes up with a little rim
on top. And there was a little two-room school
there with a little store at that time. And
then went to a couple of years at London, which is
about seven or eight miles away, and then finished
up, I think, from the fifth grade on in Junction.
high school there and graduated from there in
1943.
We had a farm and ranch combined, let's say it was
about 13, 14 miles out of junction. You had cattle
and sheep? Cattle and sheep, primarily sheep and
goats. Sheep and goats, that's all brush country
and it's sheep and goat country.
What memories do you have of the Depression as a
boy? I was still a little bit small when the major
effects of the Depression came. I was born in 26,
and the Depression really started hitting, I
guess, in 29 to 30. My primary memories was a
society totally without money in our area. We
almost reverted to a barter system. during that
period, cash crops or cash income was very hard to
generate. And we had no real
severe problems other than those problems
associated with having no money. We always had
plenty of food and plenty to eat and got by very
well. But it was a real experience looking back on
it to see that you traded
eggs or a calf or something else that you needed.
And it brought about, of course, as I guess most
periods of adversity does, a pretty strong
interdependence with your neighbors. You
shared, you killed a calf, and you split it up
between various neighbors, and then they did the
same when they, of course, at that time there was no
refrigeration or anything, so there was a need to
do that too. But a lot of neighbor interaction,
because everybody was in the same general
condition of no money and plenty of food, just
spread it around like that. So it was... It was a
unique era to grow up in in that part of the world. It
was no major hardships, but looking back on it and
looking at the complete lack of cash money, part of
that country, in an attempt to develop cash, some
sort of cash income, Planted cotton, and of course
that is a terrible area of the state to try to grow
cotton up in those hills. But it was just an attempt
to try to generate something that would, to have
something that would generate cash income. It was
unsuccessful. Right. If you could get a half a bale
to the acre or a quarter of a bale to the acre, that
was considered to be a pretty good crop. And, of
course, there's no cotton grown in that part of the
world now. But during that period of the
Depression, there was a gin located about seven,
eight miles away. But we lived very well during the
periods of the Depression.
Living without money is not all that bad if you
self-sustaining self-sustaining it quite well
okay when you finished high school in 1943 what did
you do then my first uh i had i have uh five four
brothers there are five of us and of course world
war ii was going on at that time and my first uh
interest of course was getting into the service
before the war was over and i didn't get to
participate i had a brother who who was flying
B-24s at that time and I took a trip to Tarrant Field
in Fort Worth where he was based at the time and went
through a B-24 and I thought that was the greatest
thing that I'd ever seen and the one thing for me to
would be to be able to fly so
I immediately applied for the Air Force or at that
time the Army Air Corps in San Antonio. I took the
physical examinations and all of the written
tests that they provided at the time and then went
back home to wait to see if I were going to be
accepted and of course I was only 17 at the time so I
Went back to, they told me to come back, I believe,
in two weeks, and I did. And they said, oh, yeah, I'd
passed all of the examinations, both physically
and the written tests. And I said, great, when do I
go in? And they said, well, we can't take you until
you're 18. Well, that was pretty disturbing. So on
the way out, this was in the, I believe they called
it the post office building in San Antonio. It was
up on the second floor, as I recall, and as I was
walking out very dejectedly from the Air Force Air
Corps recruiting office, going down the hall,
here was this other recruiting office with a
Marine sergeant standing there with his blue
uniform with the stripes down the trousers and all
of the red insignia on his arms and He said, what's
the matter, son? Wouldn't they take you in the Air
Force? And I said, oh, yeah, they'll take me, but
I've got to wait until I'm 18. And he said, well,
have you ever thought about joining the Marine
Corps? And I said, well, no, I really hadn't
because I want to fly. He said, well, don't you know
that the Marine Corps has the greatest Air Corps of
all the services? And I said, no, I really didn't. I
didn't know much about it. He said, oh, yeah. I
said, we have the. finest airplanes and the finest
pilots and all of the services. I said, well, that
doesn't make any difference to me whether I fly for
the Marine Corps or for the Army as long as I get to
fly. He said, well, come on in and I'll sign you up
and I'll put on your papers that I said, of course,
everybody has to go through boot camp when they go
into the Marine Corps, but I'll put on your papers
that you're going to go to flight school as soon as
your boot camp's over. Great, that's fine. Well, I
didn't go immediately then. I didn't enter until
March the next year. This was in October. But when I
did go in, I was almost through boot camp before I
finally learned that the Marine Corps didn't have
a pilot training program at all. They got theirs
out of the Navy. So that's the way I got into the
Marine Corps. I was going in to fly and found out
they didn't even have a pilot training program.
At that time, we were having some pretty strong
needs in the South Pacific. So when I went in,
people were not staying in this country very long.
We went through our boot camp training, which
they'd shortened, and then the period of combat
conditioning in San Diego.
Our combat conditioning and programs, and then we
were immediately shipped out to the South
Pacific. I went on a troop ship from San Diego to
Honolulu and was there about a month in what they
called a replacement depot and then took a little,
very small Danish freighter that they were using
at the time to carry troops from there to
Guadalcanal. And I went into Guadalcanal in
about, oh gosh, I forget the dates, but it was
sometime that summer. Now, the island had already
been secured before I got there. So our only
activities really were patrols, trying to mop up
the remnants of the Japanese that were still
there. But the major fighting had already been
completed by the time I got there. We were on
Guadalcanal for, and I'm not good at dates at all,
but for a period of months. And then went to Guam.
And they were in the process of retaking Guam then.
Again, I was with a third corps battalion,
in which the first and sixth divisions were the
major elements. But we were with a specialized
signal group. We were called the Joint Assault and
Signal Operations. The first, the only real
combat action that I was in was in Okinawa. We were
in the advanced landing parties on Okinawa. We
went in there, I believe it was Easter Sunday. And
again, I was still with the 3rd Corps, Special
Signal Battalion with the 3rd Corps. And we were
the group that were to land with the assault troops
and provide ship-to-shore communications with
the landing, with the troop ships and with the
support battle ships that were there in support of
the landings.
I was on Okinawa all the way through until it was
secured.
And again, the date sort of escaped me, but we left
Okinawa to go back to Guam again. And we were on an
LST.
And we're still aboard ship. when the atomic bomb
was dropped on Hiroshima. I think that was about
August, the first part of August, the fourth or
fifth of August. So all we could do, all we did
really was land back in Guam.
Stayed on shore probably a matter of just a week or
10 days while we were regrouping. And we were a
group, our group was sent to China to North China
then, and landed in North China at Tencent as a part
of a force to repatriate the Japanese out of China.
They had been in China since, oh gosh, the early, I
guess the late 30s, 39 or 40. So our group went in to
repatriate
As I understood it, the major concern was that once
the Chinese learned that the war was over and Japan
had surrendered, that they might just kill all the
Japanese soldiers that were there. So we were to go
up and disarm the Japanese, accept their
surrender, and then ship them home. I said we
landed in China on September the 1st, and then...
Stayed there, did the repatriation. Stayed there
until, oh, nearly, well, until June of the next
year. That must be June of 45. So
no,
that'd be June of 46. My years slipped. June of
1946, I left China to come back to get discharged.
We were, of course, during that time, that was the,
we got the Japanese out relatively early. But that
was the same time that Miao Tse-tung was coming
down out of Manchuria on his move south. And Chiang
Kai-shek was supposedly fighting him all the way
down, being pushed back into north China and
eventually on out through Shanghai. So we were a
part of the truce teams that the United States sent
to China during that period of late 45 to try to
minimize the fighting between Chiang Kai-shek
and Mao Tse-Tung.
We were... The two major cities in that part of
North China were Tencent and Peking. Peking being
the old national capital. And one of our little
chores was to protect the Peking-Tencent
Railroad, which during this period, and the
Chinese, the communist nationalists were right
in that area during this period. And the railroad
got its brunt of the action. They'd attack the
trains and burn the ties and stack up a bunch of the
ties and put the rails on top and melt them down. It
made it very inconvenient to operate a railroad.
But it really wasn't a pitch battle sort of thing
during that period.
So that's sort of a brief term. I spent all of the
time that I was in the Marine Corps in the South
Pacific and China, and very little of it in the
United States. In fact, I came back, landed, and I
think was discharged within a week. So my tour in
the service spent in this country, I think, lasted
about two months out of the three years that I was
in. I wasn't here very long. You were discharged
when? In June, I think, 29th or so of 1946. By how
much time do you think that the bombing shortened
the war against Japan? Substantially. I'm not a
military historian, but we were, of course,
getting prepared, and the reason we were going
back to Guam was that was to be our staging area
regroup and get rearmed and outfitted
supposedly for the attack on the Japanese
mainland. And it would have been both a very bloody
affair and a very prolonged affair. Because the
Japanese in the latter stages of the war had
learned how to fight our style.
The campaigns had become progressively more
costly. Okinawa was a terrific
loss on, of course, both on the Japanese side and on
ours. It was a very, very bloody campaign. And had
we had to move into the Japanese mainland, they are
a very tough,
people, and they would have been very hard to
dislodge through conventional warfare means.
Now, whether some other event might have
precipitated a surrender or whether they might
have seen the handwriting on the wall and
surrendered anyway, nobody knows, but... It took
more than one. It took more than one, that's right.
When you got out of the service in 46, what did you do
then?
This doesn't sound very good from a standpoint of
A&M's recruiting. But while I was in the Marine
Corps, I grew up with our closest neighbor. He had a
boy about a year older than I am. He and I went
through high school together, went through the
Marine Corps together. He was in the 11th.
Marines, which was a field artillery unit. We
served in the South Pacific and in China together.
And while we were in China, knowing that we were
going to be discharged, we decided that we were
going home to school when we got back home. So we, of
course, got to talking about where we would go. We
decided we'd go to the same place. Frankly, we
weren't very knowledgeable about universities,
having come from a small country community during
the Depression years, but we had listened to
Southwest Conference football, and we knew about
Texas A&M, about the University of Texas, and
about TCU. At that time, that was the or just prior
to that time. Of course, they had Sammy Ball and Kai
Aldrich at TCU, who were very famous football
players and made quite a name for the school. So it
had narrowed down to those three places. And we
finally decided that, well, since TCU was a
private school and neither one of us had any money
at all, that we were going to have to go to one of the
state schools, which was either Texas or A&M. So in
a 10-cent bar one night, we decided we'd make our
decision. And it came down to flipping a coin. As
the heads would go to Texas, tails would come to
A&M. And it came up tails. We both came to A&M in the
fall of 46. And we got discharged about the same
time. He got out a little earlier than I did. But we
both hitchhiked a ride down here. about 250 miles,
back of a pickup with their sea bags, and entered
A&M with that big entering class that came in in the
fall of 46, the returning veterans. You didn't
have to go through the COA program here since you
were a veteran. I didn't have to go through it. They
had a, well, let me tell you, when we got here, you
probably don't recall, but at the time, this was a
big influx of, of returning veterans. They didn't
have housing on campus for us. So they put us at the
old Bryan Air Force Base in the tar paper shacks.
And our ride had left us on campus. We had
registered and signed up and gone through all of
the enrollment procedures. Then we said,
naturally, well, now where do we live? And they
said, well, there'll be a truck come by and take you
to your barracks. It's going to be out at Bryan Air
Force Base. We didn't know where that was. We found
out it was about 12 miles out of town. We got out
there, and it was the same thing we'd just gotten
out of, you know, with the military environment,
those old tar paper shacks. And they really were
tar paper. And we got there late in the afternoon,
about sundown. And we were both ready to check it
out and go home. Unfortunately, we didn't have any
transportation since we'd hitchhiked down here.
So we decided that it was really sort of dumb to pick
up our sea bags and try to hitchhike a ride back home
again that night, so we'd wait until tomorrow.
Well, obviously, all the rest of the fellas got in
the barracks, and we got to know each other, and by
the next morning, things looked a whole lot
better, and so we stayed. But we spent the first
year out there, all of the instructions out there.
Again, now this was in 46, and there was
practically no transportation. In our barracks
of, I don't remember, 35, 40 people probably in
that one barracks, maybe more, there was one old
car that one of the fellows had. And that was the
total transportation availability in our
barracks. And the rest of them were about the same,
very little transportation. which meant if you
were at Bryan Air Force Base with no
transportation, you were pretty well isolated.
So we were reasonably well isolated out there for
the first year. Moved back on campus then in 47.
Lived up at what was called the new dorm area at that
time, the old dorms up at Northgate. I think we were
in 17.
And stayed there then that year. And then we had the
program that... If you were returning veteran,
you didn't have to take the first two years of you
didn't have to take any of the military corps. But
if you wanted to get a commission, you could then go
into the core in your junior year and go under
contract and become commissioned. Well, I wasn't
at all sure of what the future military positions
would be. And I knew if we ever had another war, I'd
already fought one as a private and PFC. And I had
seen that officers
did a whole lot better than enlisted men in the
service. And if we ever had another one, I was going
to be an officer this time. So I went through the
core. I joined the core in my junior year was in EVET
Air Force. And we had a veteran battalion. And I
went through and was commissioned when I
graduated in 1950 in the Air Force as a second
lieutenant in the Air Force.
Majored in agricultural economics and stayed
here, then went on to graduate school. after I
graduated, not totally because I had the burning
desire for additional knowledge, but jobs were
awful scarce. And the assistantship that I had in
agricultural economics was about as good an offer
as I had from a standpoint of money at that time. It
was 1950, and jobs were not all that plentiful at
that time.
So you got a master's in this stuff? I got a master's
in ag economics in what they called their ag
administration option in 1951 and then worked for
Dr. John McNeely, who was a livestock marketing
specialist in the agricultural economics area.
I'd worked for him. while I was an undergraduate
and also under my master's, getting my master's,
and stayed on then working for the station,
experiment station full time until about March of
1953. We were doing livestock auction studies. We
did efficiency studies, marketing studies of
livestock auctions, designed new auction
systems, and so forth. Very interesting work.
Had an opportunity to go to New York City with a
private firm, price forecasting firm, called
Industrial Commodity Corporation.
Left here in March of 53.
Went to New York City. Took my wife and little baby.
Pulled a trailer up there. When did you marry? Oh, I
got married in 1950. I got married between the time
that classes were out and graduation in 1950.
Where's your wife from? She was from a little town
in Menard, which was the next town over from
Junction. I've heard of Menard. Yeah, well, it's
the suburb of Junction. It's one of the little
towns about the same size as Junction. Okay, then
you went to New York in 1953, right?
The Industrial Commodity Corporation was a very,
again, I've been very fortunate. I've had some
very interesting jobs in my life. This was a
private forecasting firm. It had been founded by
the president of the company, Mr. Jay Carvel Lang,
who had gotten into the business and developed
some forecasting, crash forecasting
techniques. and had worked for, had gotten
contracts with Colgate-Palmolive-Pete at that
time, it was a Colgate company, to do their
inventory control work, as we'd tell them when to
buy and stock up on the materials used in making
soaps and toothpaste, and when to let the
inventory go down. It was an expectation of
falling prices in the future. Well, I was hired to
set up a livestock and livestock product section
since my background was in livestock. We did the
economic forecast for Time Life Fortune
magazines and then did procurement advice for
major companies. In my case, I did procurement
work or telling them when to buy or when to sell,
depending on what kind of company it was. For
example, Armor was one of our clients, Armor
Packing Company, and we would tell them when to
sell their animal byproducts, particularly
tallow and lard and hides. And we also were on the
other side of the market with The Trostall
Tanneries in Indianapolis was another large
client. We'd tell them when to buy ahead on hides
for their tanning, leather-making industries.
But when we moved to New York,
I was hired by a fellow named John Atkins who was
originally from Tennessee and had been with the
firm about a year. And they lived out on Long
Island. Is that ADK or ATK? ATK, Atkins. As a part
of, of course, I told him, you know, I don't know
anything about New York. I've never been there. I
really didn't have any desire to go to New York and
didn't know anything about the area. So I asked him
to see if he could locate a house for us. He did in a
little town of Bellmore.
B-E-L-L-M-O-R-E. Now, Belmore is out on Long
Island, on the Long Island Railroad. And it's way
out on the island. When we moved there in 53, it was a
typical little German community. Large oak and
wild cherry trees, a very beautiful little place.
It was in the midst of a farming area. And if you'll
recall at one time, Long Island potatoes were the
classic potato, the big potato area. Also
strawberries, a very rich farming area out there.
It's now covered with houses from shore to shore.
But we lived in this little town. He'd gotten us a
very nice house. We had no furniture, of course.
The first six months that we lived there, but it's
gradually accumulated furniture. My wife liked
it very much. It was a very, very nice place.
Unfortunately, it was a long way from where I
worked in downtown New York City. Our offices were
at 122 East 42nd Street, which is right in the
middle of downtown New York City. right across
from the Chrysler Building. It was in a place
called the Shannon Building. It was
C-H-A-N-N-I-N, I believe. So I would catch the
6.59 train every morning in order to get, or 7
o'clock train, it was a 6.59 just before 7, to get to
work at 9. So I had about a two-hour commute each way
every day. And I'd ride the Long Island Railroad
into Times Square. What was the fare on that
railroad back then? Do you recall? I bought
monthly tickets, monthly pass sort of thing. And
it was about $30-something, $36 a month, which
meant if you bought a regular ticket, it would be,
say, a dollar-something each way. which in those
days, and I was making, by the way, when I went
there, I made $5,000. That was my starting salary,
$5,000 a year. So $2 a day for railroad fare on a
$5,000 salary is a substantial lick, substantial
cost, in addition to the time required. We'd go
into time to the Long Island Railroad. We'd go into
Times Square. We'd... get out, walk over, and
catch the shuttle from Times Square to Grand
Central Station, and then get out and walk to work.
And masses of people everywhere. I had a very
interesting time getting used to that many
people, and particularly the crowding on both the
Long Island Railroad and the subways. It was a
unique experience. Was that same railroad still
running each way there? Yeah, still running.
probably still with the same equipment. It was old
equipment even then, but they're probably still
using much of the same equipment. So y'all decided
to move out of Long Island? Then, right, we, after
being there about two years, we had a, our daughter
was born in New York shortly after we got there, or
on Long Island, and I woke up One day, with not only
the commute schedule, but I traveled quite a bit. I
was to see clients out in Indianapolis or Chicago
or all over the country. Since the livestock area,
most of it was in the Midwest. So I was out of town
quite a bit. And two, I found that
my kids were still asleep every morning when I left
to go to work. And I didn't get back until after 7 at
night, so oftentimes or later. And oftentimes,
they were still asleep when I got in. So I wasn't
seeing my family any. And so I decided to move about
that hour. I was in the frame of mind to be
approached
to move somewhere else. And about that time, the 12
western states decided that they would set up a
price forecasting operation to serve the feeder
cattle industry for the 12 western states based in
Denver. So Dr. McNeely, who I'd worked under here
since What I was doing in New York was developing
price forecasting techniques using, at that
time, a relatively new tool of regression
analysis, which we'd sort of developed and
refined to do price forecasting. And I had a good
rationale for it. I asked if I would be interested
in moving to Denver and being Assistant Director
of the 12th
Regional Livestock Marketing Technical
Committee, I believe it had a very short name to it,
with a fellow named, who was director, named
Harold Abel, who was a USDA employee. So we did. In
fact, by that time, I had my salary in New York had
increased substantially, and I was making about
between $12,000 and $13,000 a year, which is a very
good salary then. So I took a cut to about $8,000
to move from New York back to Denver. So we moved
across country again, left there in the spring of
1955. Is that right? Yeah. Yeah.
spring of 55 and moved to Denver and set up the price
forecasting mechanism for western feeder
cattle. As a part of that, we worked with the
agricultural experiment stations of each of the
12 western states. At that time, Texas was not a
member of the western states, so it was always the
12 western states and Texas. The line went down
just to the west of us, but Texas was in the group.
Again, very interesting arrangement because the
activity, which was housed in the Federal
Building in Denver, was really funded through
assessments to each one of the egg experiment
stations. Every state's got its different laws.
Some of them could put the money in a common pot.
Others couldn't. They had to pay direct, either
for travel or personnel costs. So we might end up
one month with a paycheck from Utah and the next
time with one from Wyoming or Montana or Idaho as to
where our money would come from. Each month, but it
all came out even in the end, but it was very
interesting the way they had to go around and
accumulate the funds to pay that sort of a program.
Stayed there a year. We like Denver very much.
Except it stays cold. Too long in the springtime
for our tastes. So in one of the. trips back to
Texas.
We came back down here to visit people here and
happened to be in the ag economics department one
day. And Dr. Tim, who was head then, asked me if I
knew Fred Benson. I told him, no, I really didn't.
He was over here in engineering. He said, well,
they were starting a new program called the Texas
Transportation Institute and that he was looking
for someone to head up a new research project that
they had funded for the coming year. So I came over
and talked to Fred and then to Mr. McDonald, Thomas
McDonald, who was the supposed head of the
institute at that time. It was sort of a an
arrangement that they brought him down to set it
up, and he was to be the principal brain trust
behind the institute. But Mr. Benson was actually
the one doing the actual administration of it. So I
visited with them. We left and went back to Denver.
And in about a week, I got a letter from them
offering me a job here. Well, I'd taken a
substantial cut in salary to move from New York to
Denver, and I was offered a job at another cut in
salary to move back to Texas A&M.
Fred offered me $7,000 a year. At that time, I was
making about $8,600 in Denver. Well, I knew that
I wasn't going to get much more than that. But I held
out for a month or so to make it an even $7,200 or $600
a month. And I never did get it. I never could sway
them for the extra $200. And finally, we moved back
here in April of 56. And I've been here with it ever
since.
You came in what capacity? What was your exact
title when you came in 55, 56?
I was associate research economist. Now, one of
the reasons I came was I wanted to go ahead and
finish a Ph.D.
When I say finished one, I hadn't started it, but I
wanted, well, I had taken a course or two, but I
hadn't started the formal program. So as a part of
the negotiations
was the fact that if I came, that I would be allowed
to take one course a semester, which is now sort of a
standard practice. It wasn't all that standard at
the time. toward a PhD so that I could get,
accumulate some of my coursework, get most of my
coursework off and then drop back perhaps to half
time or something and write a dissertation.
Well, I was, my title was Associate Research
Economist. So, and I was brought down
specifically to head up a research project, what
they called Customer Requirements in
Transportation. At Mr. McDonald's insistence,
he had been chief of the Bureau of Public Roads for
34 years and was really considered to be the father
of transportation in the country at that time. One
of his major concerns were that we were not really
gearing our transportation systems to the needs
of the users, that we were really more concerned
with the providers than we were with the users. He
wanted a continuing study of what do the users
need? What are their requirements for
transportation? And how are these requirements
being met? And how can then the providers of
transportation more adequately adjust their
systems to serve the real needs of the users? That
was one of the first studies that was done under our
cooperative research program with the Highway
Department, which funding came from the Highway
Department to do that. It was the study number two.
At that time, they called it Research Project 2.
RP2 was the title of it. And I stayed... Well, we
sort of... need to change tapes
this one on for again my i'm not real good at dates
but probably two or three years we built and added
some other research projects to it and the time
that when i came here we were located in this
building but the building was practically vacant
there were about four or five of us in this
building. And the building didn't look like it
does now. All of this area was our library. All of
this wing here was a library, which we've since cut
up, made my office and the office next to it and a
group of offices on the other side. Upstairs, the
area just above this was a big, what at that time
they called a map room. Now, the idea when they
created the institute, and creation was through
the efforts of Mr. DeWitt Greer, who was head of the
highway department, Mr. Gib Gilchrist, who was
chancellor of the system at that time, and Mr.
McDonald. And their concept was that this would be
a think tank a think tank operation that they'd
bring Mr. McDonald and they would get a leading man
from each of the disciplines in and they would
really not have much to do except study and write
and
evaluate policies of transportation and that
their vision was in order to do this you needed to
have room where you could spread out maps of the
system and look at the way the systems came
together and what the problems were and this sort
of thing. It never did work that way. One, there was
no funding available for that sort of thing. So we
rather rapidly shifted over to more of a research
orientation as opposed to a think tank funded
policy group. And in later years began modifying
the building to accommodate those different
kinds of needs. The great big rooms, the map rooms,
and so forth were not functionally useful.
The institute started, as I say, with only a few
people. It was actually created in 55, September
55, so I was here pretty early on in its life. It was
created by board minute order and through a
special legislative provision which allowed the
highway department.